Add new blog entry to create a custom gateway manually (#2803)
istio/istio.io: content/docs/tasks/traffic-management/custom-gateway/index.md

---

> title: Add a new Custom IngressGateway

Reviewer: Capitalization and word choice:
```suggestion
title: Add a Custom Ingress Gateway
```

description: Describes how to add a new custom ingress gateway manually.
weight: 89
keywords: [ingress,traffic-management]
---

> This post provide instructions to create manually a new custom ingress gateway with automatic provisioning of certificate based on cert-manager.

Reviewer: Since this is now a task, the text must reflect the change:
This task provides ...
See my previous comment to fix the grammar issues.

This post was validated on AWS Infrastructure

## Prerequisites

Have cert-manager installed with [chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/cert-manager)

## Check cert-manager installation

Cert-manager needs to be installed, if it's has been install with helm you can check installation has bellow:

{{< text bash >}}
$ helm ls
NAME         	REVISION	UPDATED                 	STATUS  	CHART                    	APP VERSION 	NAMESPACE
istio        	1       	Thu Oct 11 13:34:24 2018	DEPLOYED	istio-1.0.2              	1.0.2       	istio-system
cert        	1       	Wed Oct 24 14:08:36 2018	DEPLOYED	cert-manager-v0.6.0-dev.2	v0.6.0-dev.2	istio-system
{{< /text >}}

> ## Create cluster issuer

Reviewer: Change to a numbered list item:
```suggestion
1. To create the cluster's issuer, apply the following configuration:
```

> {{< warning_icon >}} Adapt cluster issuer provider with your own configuration, in our example we use `route53`

Reviewer: Indent text with 4 spaces to avoid breaking the numbered list. To fix grammar, I suggest:
```suggestion
{{< warning_icon >}} Change the cluster's issuer provider with your own configuration values. The example uses the values under `route53`.
```

> {{< text yaml >}}

Reviewer: The configuration must also be indented with four spaces. I won't comment on it again.

apiVersion: certmanager.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: letsencrypt-demo
  namespace: kube-system
spec:
  acme:
    # The ACME server URL
    server: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    # Email address used for ACME registration
    email: <REDACTED>
    # Name of a secret used to store the ACME account private key
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: letsencrypt-demo
    dns01:
      # Here we define a list of DNS-01 providers that can solve DNS challenges
      providers:
      - name: aws-dns
        route53:
          accessKeyID: <REDACTED>
          region: eu-central-1
          secretAccessKeySecretRef:
            name: prod-route53-credentials-secret
            key: secret-access-key
{{< /text >}}

> ## Create secret

Reviewer: Change to item in a numbered list. I suggest:
```suggestion
1. If you use the `route53` provider, you must provide a secret to perform DNS ACME Validation. To create the secret, apply the following configuration file:
```

> If you use provider `route53` you must provide secret in order to perform DNS ACME Validation.

Reviewer: Remove if you use my suggestion on line 58

## Create cluster issuer

{{< warning_icon >}} Adapt cluster issuer provider with your own configuration, in our example we use `route53`

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: certmanager.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: letsencrypt-demo
  namespace: kube-system
spec:
  acme:
    # The ACME server URL
    server: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    # Email address used for ACME registration
    email: <REDACTED>
    # Name of a secret used to store the ACME account private key
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: letsencrypt-demo
    dns01:
      # Here we define a list of DNS-01 providers that can solve DNS challenges
      providers:
      - name: aws-dns
        route53:
          accessKeyID: <REDACTED>
          region: eu-central-1
          secretAccessKeySecretRef:
            name: prod-route53-credentials-secret
            key: secret-access-key
{{< /text >}}

## Create secret

If you use provider `route53` you must provide secret in order to perform DNS ACME Validation.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: prod-route53-credentials-secret
type: Opaque
data:
  secret-access-key: <REDACTED BASE64>
{{< /text >}}

> ## Create Certificate

Reviewer: See previous comments:
```suggestion
1. To create your certificate, apply the following configuration file:
```

> Create your own certificate:

Reviewer: Remove

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: certmanager.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: demo-certificate
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  acme:
    config:
    - dns01:
        provider: aws-dns
      domains:
      - '*.mydemo.com'
  commonName: '*.mydemo.com'
  dnsNames:
  - '*.mydemo.com'
  issuerRef:
    kind: ClusterIssuer
    name: letsencrypt-demo
  secretName: istio-customingressgateway-certs
{{< /text >}}

> Have a look of `secretName`, it will be used in next section.

Reviewer: Indent the text. Do not use future tense nor passive voice. To fix, I suggest:
```suggestion
Make a note of the value of `secretName` since a future step requires it.
```

> ## Create Horizontal Pod Autoscaler

Reviewer: See previous comments:
```suggestion
To scale automatically, declare a new horizontal pod autoscaler with the following configuration:
```

> In order to have scalability you need to declare a new Horizontal Pod Autoscaler:

Reviewer: Remove

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: autoscaling/v1
kind: HorizontalPodAutoscaler
metadata:
  name: istio-internal-custom
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  maxReplicas: 5
  minReplicas: 1
  scaleTargetRef:
    apiVersion: apps/v1beta1
    kind: Deployment
    name: istio-internal-custom
  targetCPUUtilizationPercentage: 80
status:
  currentCPUUtilizationPercentage: 0
  currentReplicas: 1
  desiredReplicas: 1
{{< /text >}}

> ## Create Deployment

Reviewer: See previous comments:

```suggestion
1. Deploy the configuration with the following declaration:
```

Apply your deployment with declaration bellow.

> {{< warning_icon >}} Usage of annotations `aws-load-balancer-type` only applied for AWS cloud provider

Reviewer: The text suffers from poor grammar: 
```suggestion
{{< warning_icon >}} The annotations used, for example `aws-load-balancer-type`, only apply for AWS.
```

            - matchExpressions:
              - key: beta.kubernetes.io/arch
                operator: In
                values:
                - amd64
                - ppc64le
                - s390x
          preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          - weight: 2
            preference:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: beta.kubernetes.io/arch
                operator: In
                values:
                - amd64
          - weight: 2
            preference:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: beta.kubernetes.io/arch
                operator: In
                values:
                - ppc64le
          - weight: 2
            preference:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: beta.kubernetes.io/arch
                operator: In
                values:
                - s390x
        podAntiAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          - labelSelector:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: app
                operator: In
                values:
                - istio-internal-custom
            topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
{{< /text >}}

> Please Note that you have to force a NodePort to an available Port.

Reviewer: This is a new step:
```suggestion
1. Force a `NodePort` to an available Port.
```

> You also have to declare your `ingressgateway-custom-certs` with secret name generated before (for example `secretName: istio-customingressgateway-certs`)

Reviewer: This is another step:
```suggestion
1. Declare your `ingressgateway-custom-certs` with the secret name you generated before. In our example, `secretName: istio-customingressgateway-certs`.
```

> ## Create Istio gateway

Reviewer: See previous comments:
```suggestion
1. Create your Istio custom gateway configuration object:
```

You can now create an Istio custom gateway:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  annotations:
  name: istio-custom-gateway
  namespace: default
spec:
  selector:
    istio: istio-internal-custom
  servers:
  - hosts:
    - '*.mydemo.com'
    port:
      name: http
      number: 80
      protocol: HTTP
    tls:
      httpsRedirect: true
  - hosts:
    - '*.mydemo.com'
    port:
      name: https
      number: 443
      protocol: HTTPS
    tls:
      mode: SIMPLE
      privateKey: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.key
      serverCertificate: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.crt
{{< /text >}}

> You can now use your custom gateway `istio-custom-gateway`

Reviewer: Add a blank line at the end of the file. It helps avoid issues with some Markdown parsers. I suggest adding a congratulatory comment to encourage readers further:
```suggestion
**Congratulations!** You can now use your custom `istio-custom-gateway` gateway configuration object. 
```

---
title: Add a new Custom Ingress Gateway
description: Describes how to add a new custom ingress gateway manually.
weight: 89
keywords: [ingress,traffic-management]
---

This post provides instructions to manually create a new custom ingress [gateway](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#Gateway) with automatic provisioning of certificates based on cert-manager.
This task was validated on AWS Infrastructure.

## Before you begin

* Setup Istio by following the instructions in the

>   [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

Reviewer 2: What about cert-manager?

Author: I've updated with a link to cert-manager installation

## Configuring the custom ingress gateway

1. Check if [cert-manager](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/cert-manager) was installed using Helm with the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}

    $ helm ls

    {{< /text>}}

    The output should be similar to the example below and show cert-manager with a `STATUS` of `DEPLOYED`:

    {{< text plaintext >}}

    NAME   REVISION UPDATED                  STATUS   CHART                     APP VERSION   NAMESPACE
    istio     1     Thu Oct 11 13:34:24 2018 DEPLOYED istio-1.0.2               1.0.2         istio-system
    cert      1     Wed Oct 24 14:08:36 2018 DEPLOYED cert-manager-v0.6.0-dev.2 v0.6.0-dev.2  istio-system

>     {{< /text >}}

Reviewer 2: What if it is not installed? What are the nstructions for running it?

Author: Updated with link to chart installation

1. To create the cluster's issuer, apply the following configuration:

    {{< warning_icon >}} Change the cluster's issuer provider with your own configuration values. The example uses the values under `route53`.

    {{< text yaml >}}

    apiVersion: certmanager.k8s.io/v1alpha1
    kind: ClusterIssuer
    metadata:
      name: letsencrypt-demo
      namespace: kube-system
    spec:
      acme:
        # The ACME server URL
        server: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
        # Email address used for ACME registration
        email: <REDACTED>
        # Name of a secret used to store the ACME account private key
        privateKeySecretRef:
          name: letsencrypt-demo
        dns01:
          # Here we define a list of DNS-01 providers that can solve DNS challenges
          providers:
          - name: aws-dns
            route53:
              accessKeyID: <REDACTED>
              region: eu-central-1
              secretAccessKeySecretRef:
                name: prod-route53-credentials-secret
                key: secret-access-key

    {{< /text >}}

> 1. If you use the `route53` provider, you must provide a secret to perform DNS ACME Validation. To create the secret, apply the following configuration file:

Reviewer 2: I'm not familiar with AWS , route53, or cert-manager, so have no idea what I need to do to on a different cloud platform.

Author: Updated with a link to cert-manager provider configuration

    {{< text yaml >}}

    apiVersion: certmanager.k8s.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Certificate
    metadata:
      name: demo-certificate
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      acme:
        config:
        - dns01:
            provider: aws-dns
          domains:
          - '*.mydemo.com'
      commonName: '*.mydemo.com'
      dnsNames:
      - '*.mydemo.com'
      issuerRef:
        kind: ClusterIssuer
        name: letsencrypt-demo
      secretName: istio-customingressgateway-certs

    {{< /text >}}

    Make a note of the value of `secretName` since a future step requires it.

1. To scale automatically, declare a new horizontal pod autoscaler with the following configuration:

    {{< text yaml >}}

    apiVersion: autoscaling/v1
    kind: HorizontalPodAutoscaler
    metadata:
      name: istio-internal-custom
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      maxReplicas: 5
      minReplicas: 1
      scaleTargetRef:
        apiVersion: apps/v1beta1
        kind: Deployment
        name: istio-internal-custom
      targetCPUUtilizationPercentage: 80
    status:
      currentCPUUtilizationPercentage: 0
      currentReplicas: 1
      desiredReplicas: 1

    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Apply your deployment with declaration bellow.

Reviewer 2: Why isn't this done with helm? For example: https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/examples/advanced-gateways/egress-gateway-mtls-origination/#redeploy-the-egress-gateway-with-the-client-certificates

Author: The purpose of my initial post was to explain how to configure a custom gateway with example, to understand how it's works

Reviewer 3: I agree with @frankbu, I would use helm as much as possible. See for example https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/tasks/traffic-management/secure-ingress/#redeploy-istio-ingressgateway-with-the-new-certificates, since this is the recommended way to deploy Istio. The focus of the task should be on cert-manager and on the point that you can have multiple ingress gateways.

                    - amd64
                    - ppc64le
                    - s390x
              preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
              - weight: 2
                preference:
                  matchExpressions:
                  - key: beta.kubernetes.io/arch
                    operator: In
                    values:
                    - amd64
              - weight: 2
                preference:
                  matchExpressions:
                  - key: beta.kubernetes.io/arch
                    operator: In
                    values:
                    - ppc64le
              - weight: 2
                preference:
                  matchExpressions:
                  - key: beta.kubernetes.io/arch
                    operator: In
                    values:
                    - s390x
            podAntiAffinity:
              requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
              - labelSelector:
                  matchExpressions:
                  - key: app
                    operator: In
                    values:
                    - istio-internal-custom
                topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname

    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Create your service:s

Reviewer 2: Is this the right way to do this? As with deployment, can this be configured with helm?

      type: LoadBalancer
      selector:
        app: istio-internal-custom
        istio: istio-internal-custom
      ports:
        -
          name: http2
          nodePort: 32380
          port: 80
          targetPort: 80
        -
          name: https
          nodePort: 32390
          port: 443
        -
          name: tcp
          nodePort: 32400
          port: 31400

    {{< /text >}}

1. Create your Istio custom gateway configuration object:

    {{< text yaml >}}

    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      annotations:
      name: istio-custom-gateway
      namespace: default
    spec:
      selector:
        istio: istio-internal-custom
      servers:
      - hosts:
        - '*.mydemo.com'
        port:
          name: http
          number: 80
          protocol: HTTP
        tls:
          httpsRedirect: true
      - hosts:
        - '*.mydemo.com'
        port:
          name: https
          number: 443
          protocol: HTTPS
        tls:
          mode: SIMPLE
          privateKey: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.key
          serverCertificate: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.crt

    {{< /text >}}

> **Congratulations!** You can now use your custom `istio-custom-gateway` [gateway](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#Gateway) configuration object.

Reviewer 2: What's missing is an actual running service that you can access via mydemo.com to see it works. That's needed if this is going to be an example.

Author: The purpose of my initial post was to explain how to configure a custom gateway with example, to understand how it's works

Reviewer 2: Even if you want to explain details, I still think users should be told to generate with helm, instead of copy and paste deployments, etc., from the example doc. Something more like this: https://deploy-preview-1984--preliminary-istio.netlify.com/docs/examples/advanced-gateways/wildcard-https-egress-gateway/#custom-egress-gateway-with-sni-proxy

Reviewer 2: So how does user confirm that it works? That's the usual last step of an Istio example.

Reviewer 3: I agree with @frankbu regarding an actual running service. I would also clarify in the beginning how this task is different from https://istio.io/docs/tasks/traffic-management/secure-ingress/ and what is the motivation.

Something like: The Securing Gateways with HTTPS task describes how to use configure ingress HTTPS traffic by using the Istio ingress gateway. This task describes how to deploy a custom ingress gateway, using cert-manager.

---
title: Deploy a custom ingress gateway using cert-manager
description: Describes how to deploy a custom ingress gateway using cert-manager manually.
weight: 89
keywords: [ingress,traffic-management]
---

This post provides instructions to manually create a custom ingress [gateway](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#Gateway) with automatic provisioning of certificates based on cert-manager.

## Before you begin

* Setup Istio by following the instructions in the
  [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).
* Setup `cert-manager` with helm [chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/cert-manager#installing-the-chart)

## Configuring the custom ingress gateway

1. Check if [cert-manager](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/cert-manager) was installed using Helm with the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}

> 

Reviewer 4: You shouldn't have empty lines at the start and end of text blocks.

    $ helm ls

    {{< /text>}}

    The output should be similar to the example below and show cert-manager with a `STATUS` of `DEPLOYED`:

>     {{< text plaintext >}}

Reviewer 4: plaintext -> plain

---

> title: Add a new Custom Ingress Gateway

Reviewer 3: I think "new" is redundant here, custom ingress gateway is enough. Also, I would use "deploy" instead of "add", so the tile could be "Deploy a custom ingress gateway".

Reviewer 3: I also think that an important issue here is the cert-manager. I would consider calling this task: "Deploy a custom ingress gateway using cert-manager"

description: Describes how to add a new custom ingress gateway manually.
weight: 89
keywords: [ingress,traffic-management]
---

This post provides instructions to manually create a new custom ingress [gateway](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#Gateway) with automatic provisioning of certificates based on cert-manager.

> This task was validated on AWS Infrastructure.

Reviewer 3: I think if the task is not specific for AWS, it should be tested on some "generic" Kubernetes cluster, without cloud provider specific annotations. In needed, as a remark, the instructions for AWS could be provided, after the instructions for a generic Kubernetes cluster.

* Setup `cert-manager` with helm [chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/cert-manager#installing-the-chart)

## Configuring the custom ingress gateway

1. Check if [cert-manager](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/cert-manager) was installed using Helm with the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}

    $ helm ls

    {{< /text>}}

    The output should be similar to the example below and show cert-manager with a `STATUS` of `DEPLOYED`:

    {{< text plaintext >}}

    NAME   REVISION UPDATED                  STATUS   CHART                     APP VERSION   NAMESPACE
    istio     1     Thu Oct 11 13:34:24 2018 DEPLOYED istio-1.0.2               1.0.2         istio-system
    cert      1     Wed Oct 24 14:08:36 2018 DEPLOYED cert-manager-v0.6.0-dev.2 v0.6.0-dev.2  istio-system

    {{< /text >}}

1. To create the cluster's issuer, apply the following configuration:

    {{< warning_icon >}} Change the cluster's [issuer](https://cert-manager.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/issuers.html#issuers) provider with your own configuration values. The example uses the values under `route53`.

    {{< text yaml >}}

>     apiVersion: certmanager.k8s.io/v1alpha1

Reviewer 3: I am in favor of using commands with embedded configurations wherever possible. See for example https://preliminary.istio.io/blog/2018/egress-tcp/#mesh-external-service-entry-for-an-external-mysql-instance.

The reader should be able to follow the task with as less clicks as possible. If editing a config is really necessary, I would create the config file for user, see for example https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/examples/advanced-gateways/wildcard-https-egress-gateway/#custom-egress-gateway-with-sni-proxy, and then add a command to deploy that file, and a command to remove that file.

                preference:
                  matchExpressions:
                  - key: beta.kubernetes.io/arch
                    operator: In
                    values:
                    - amd64
              - weight: 2
                preference:
                  matchExpressions:
                  - key: beta.kubernetes.io/arch
                    operator: In
                    values:
                    - ppc64le
              - weight: 2
                preference:
                  matchExpressions:
                  - key: beta.kubernetes.io/arch
                    operator: In
                    values:
                    - s390x
            podAntiAffinity:
              requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
              - labelSelector:
                  matchExpressions:
                  - key: app
                    operator: In
                    values:
                    - istio-internal-custom
                topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname

    {{< /text >}}

1. Create your service:

    {{< warning_icon >}} The `NodePort` used needs to be an available Port.

    {{< text yaml >}}

    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:

>       name: istio-internal-custom

Reviewer 3: I would follow the Istio naming conventions for the ingress gateway. So if in Istio the Ingress gateway service is called "istio-ingressgateway", I would call the service "my-ingressgateway".
